DATOC is a batch program for altering fields in dataset control
blocks (DSCBs) of existing files on DASD volumes.  There are TSO
tools such as STARTOOL and PDS86 which can do the same thing, but
this one is for batch.

The fields that can be changed are:

   SPACE:   Secondary allocation (quantity and units)
   DCB:     Dataset organization (DSORG)
            Record format (RECFM)
            Logical record length (LRECL)
            Block size (BLKSIZE)
            Key length (KEYLEN)
            Relative key position (RKP)
            Options code (OPTCD)

The actual file data is not altered, only the F1 DSCB in the VTOC.
It is therefore the user's responsibility to ensure that the new
values are compatible with each other and with the rest of the
dataset attributes.  Obviously, changing some of these fields could
render the existing file unusable, and can be modified intelligently
only if the data in the allocated area is to be completely replaced.

The program is completely controlled by DD cards.  There is no PARM
or control cards.

   SYSPRINT -- required -- listing of "before" and "after" values
   of alterable fields, and any error messages.

   Any number of DD cards with DDnames beginning with "DD" can be
   provided.  These DD cards specify the datasets to be altered, and
   the fields which are to be substituted.  Appearance of any of the
   parameters in the list of fields above is interpreted as a
   request for the specified value to be substituted into the DSCB.
   Absence of a parameter indicates that the corresponding field is
   not to be changed.

   All other DD names are ignored.

Restrictions and notes:
1.  Dataset organization cannot be changed to or from either VSAM or
    ISAM.  Results are unpredictable if you try.

2.  For a keyed file, RKP + KEYLEN must not exceed the BLKSIZE.
    If it does, the RKP will not be changed.

3.  Multivolume datasets require a separate DD card for each volume.

4.  Any DD card whose DDname begins with "DD", but does not point to
    a DASD dataset, is ignored, with an error message on SYSPRINT.

5.  Changing any field of a date-protected DSCB causes an
    informational message to be written to SYSPRINT, but the change
    is allowed with no operator WTOR intervention.

6.  Once altered, datasets cannot be passed or deleted; all such
    DD cards should state DISP=(OLD,KEEP).

Return codes:
    0.  All requests were processed successfully.
    4.  At least one field could not be processed.
    8.  At least one DSCB encounted I/O error on rewrite; results
         unpredictable.
   12.  At least one DD card could not be processed.
   16.  SYSPRINT could not be opened, no requests were processed.

DATOC is in Assembler and must be linked AC=1 in an authorized
library.

Execution JCL:
//stepname EXEC PGM=DATOC
//DD1 DD DSN=...,DISP=OLD,
//   DCB=...,SPACE=...     (Code values to be changed)
//SYSPRINT DD SYSOUT=class
